[Excel](custom functions) Updated info on optional parameters (#1131)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/custom-functions-parameter-options.md

# Custom functions parameter options

Custom functions are configurable with many different options for parameters.

[!include[Excel custom functions note](../includes/excel-custom-functions-note.md)]

> ## Optional parameters

Reviewer: Please update the `ms.date` attribute value within the metadata at the top of the article.

Author: fixed.

Whereas regular parameters are required, optional parameters are not. When a user invokes a function in Excel, optional parameters appear in brackets. In the following sample, the add function can optionally add a third number. This function appears as `=CONTOSO.ADD(first, second, [third])` in Excel.

#### [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)

```js
/**

>  * Add two numbers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Calculates the sum of the specified numbers
```

 * @returns {number} The sum of the numbers.
 */
function add(first, second, third) {

>    if (third === null) {

Reviewer: Need to fix indentation of this line (`if...`) remove the extra space at the beginning of the line.

>    if (third === null) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if (third === null) {
```

>     third=0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    third = 0;
```

  }
  return first + second + third;
}
CustomFunctions.associate("ADD", add);
```

#### [TypeScript](#tab/typescript)

```typescript
/**

>  * Add two numbers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Calculates the sum of the specified numbers
```

>  * @customfunction 

Reviewer: Also make same change (as described in previous suggestion) within the description of the **JavaScript** function.

(i.e., -> "Calculates the sum of the specified numbers")

Author: fixed.

 * @param first First number.
 * @param second Second number.
 * @param [third] Third number to add. If omitted, third = 0.
 * @returns The sum of the numbers.
 */

> function add(first:number, second:number, third?:number):number {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function add(first :number, second: number, third?: number): number {
```

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this instead be...?
```suggestion
function add(first: number, second: number, third?: number): number {
```

  if (third === null) {

>     third=0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    third = 0;
```

  }
  return first + second + third;
}
CustomFunctions.associate("ADD", add);
```

---

> [!NOTE]

> > Excel will pass optional parameters with a null value. This means default-initialized parameters in TypeScript will not work as expected. Therefore don't use `function add(first:number, second:number, third=0):number` syntax because it will not initialize third to 0. Instead use the TypeScript syntax as shown in the previous example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When no value is specified for an optional parameter, Excel assigns it the value `null`. This means default-initialized parameters in TypeScript will not work as expected. Therefore, don't use the syntax `function add(first:number, second:number, third=0):number` because it will not initialize `third` to 0. Instead use the TypeScript syntax as shown in the previous example.
```

> When you define a function that contains one or more optional parameters, you should specify what happens when the optional parameters are null. In the following example, `zipCode` and `dayOfWeek` are both optional parameters for the `getWeatherReport` function. If the `zipCode` parameter is undefined, the default value is set to `98052`. If the `dayOfWeek` parameter is undefined, it is set to Wednesday.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you define a function that contains one or more optional parameters, you should specify what happens when the optional parameters are null. In the following example, `zipCode` and `dayOfWeek` are both optional parameters for the `getWeatherReport` function. If the `zipCode` parameter is null, the default value is set to `98052`. If the `dayOfWeek` parameter is null, it is set to Wednesday.
```

#### [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)

```js
/**
 * Gets a weather report for a specified zipCode and dayOfWeek
 * @customfunction
 * @param {number} [zipCode] Zip code. If omitted, zipCode = 98052.
 * @param {string} [dayOfWeek] Day of the week. If omitted, dayOfWeek = Wednesday.
 * @returns {string} Weather report for the day of the week in that zip code.
 */
function getWeatherReport(zipCode, dayOfWeek)
{
  if (zipCode === null) {

>       zipCode = 98052;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    zipCode = 98052;
```

  }

  if (dayOfWeek === null) {
    dayOfWeek = "Wednesday";
  }

  // Get weather report for specified zipCode and dayOfWeek.
  // ...
}
```

#### [TypeScript](#tab/typescript)

```typescript
/**
 * Gets a weather report for a specified zipCode and dayOfWeek
 * @customfunction
 * @param zipCode Zip code. If omitted, zipCode = 98052.
 * @param [dayOfWeek] Day of the week. If omitted, dayOfWeek = Wednesday.
 * @returns Weather report for the day of the week in that zip code.
 */

> function getWeatherReport(zipCode?:number, dayOfWeek?:string):string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function getWeatherReport(zipCode?: number, dayOfWeek?: string): string
```

{
  if (zipCode === null) {

>       zipCode = 98052;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    zipCode = 98052;
```
